Alright, let's play some Jag. We've already established that the graphics weren't much of a leap for 64 bits, but graphics aren't everything.

Take a look at Tempest 2000. It's an arcade-style game with a three-dimensional feel. It's really addicting and fun to play. Basically, you're in space with a bunch of 3D shapes, just shootin' stuff and collecting power-ups. Funny to think that something so simple happens to be one of the best games the Jaguar has to offer. It even has some good kickass music, so kickass that there was actually a soundtrack on CD. But what's this monster on the cover? Does that ever happen in the game?

Let's check out Alien vs. Predator. It's a first-person sort of survival horror thing. You can play as not only the Alien and the Predator, but as a Marine. And with each character, your objectives are completely different. Surprisingly, it's most fun to play as the Marine, because ya have a gun. But with the Alien and Predator, ya have to sneak up on people. Not much to say, but it's another memorable game on the Jaguar.

Next up, the big motherfucker of first-person shooters: Doom. This is one of the best console ports of Doom that I've played. It comes as close to the PC version as it gets. But they had to ruin it with one thing: There's no music during the gameplay.

(no music plays during gameplay)

Really? Was there any reason not to have music? Did they run out of time? Some might consider it scarier that way, but it would've been nice to have the option. I call this one Silent Doom, so just put on some Slayer and you're all set.

So I think I covered most of the real famous Jaguar games. So now let's look at something more obscure: Attack of the Mutant Penguins. I gotta admit, the name alone got my attention.

But what the hell's going on? From what I understand, there's a bunch of penguins walking around. They buy tickets and then go into a transformation booth where they become evil mutant penguins. And from there, they go to the Doom Scale, yeah - the Doom Scale. They jump in the mouth and then appear on the scale. So you gotta stop the penguins by using a weapon; for example, a baseball bat. How do you get the bat? You gotta collect letters that spell the word "Bat". Where do ya find the letters? Inside treasure chests. But how do ya open the treasure chests? A key, right? No, gremlins. Yeah, you collect what they call gremlins and supposedly you drop the gremlins inside the treasure chest and then it opens. But no, it doesn't open right away, it takes like ten seconds. The more gremlins you use, the faster it opens. But it doesn't open, it like explodes. When ya get the bat, you gotta kill all the penguins, but they don't die if ya hit 'em. Instead, there's a bunch of power orbs that scatter all over. You gotta get all the power orbs to power up your bat so you can kill the penguins. But ya only kill the penguins wearing hats because the ones that don't wear hats fight the ones that do wear hats. If the mutant penguins on the Doom Scale outweigh the regular penguins, the Doom Scale starts screaming and going apeshit! (The Doom Scale goes apeshit)

This is the weirdest game I've ever played. I mean, it's not bad if you're drunk or high or somethin', but how do they come up with this shit? I got it, I could come up with a game like this. How 'bout: You're a shark, and you gotta shake palm trees 'til trains fall down, and ya put the trains in an apple, and then, turkeys come and eat the apples, and then, the turkeys go up waterfalls, and to get them down, ya have to collect monkey butts. So you drop the monkey butts on power lines, and then... (mimics explosion and drinks a bottle of Rolling Rock) Alright, what's next?

Video Game Announcer: Kasumi Ninja!

A fighting game, and a really bad one. Most fighting games have a character select screen. In fact, all of them have that, right? Well, not this one. Instead, it's got this weird first-person sorta thing. You walk around and touch statues to pick your character. It's so awkward. How did they fuck up something as easy as a select screen?

Video Game Announcer: Entering the Combat Zone!

Even worse, when playing the one-player mode, ya only get a choice of playing as two characters. You have to beat the other characters to unlock them. That alone makes it more of a pain in the ass than it has to be.

The game itself is pretty much a Mortal Kombat clone with every hit making pools of blood fall down, and it even has death moves. But it's also one of those games that wimps out by censoring the violence. Ya have to put in a parental password just to turn the blood on. Basically, it's just a six-digit code. But what's the chance of kids not figuring out the code before their parents do? But once it's unlocked, you still need to set the level of blood. So in case you want there to be a little bit of blood, but not too much? Like who the fuck cares?! Just turn the goddamn blood on!

The control is horrible. It's almost as bad as Shaq-Fu. I'm not kidding. The attacks are sluggish, there's not much strategy, and you'll never guess how to do the special move. You try everything: Back Forward kick, Down Forward punch, Half-circle Back punch, you know, the typical stuff. But none of that works. So, you gotta either maybe have the instruction manual, or go on the Internet to get the moves. You gotta hold the C button. Like instead of down forward C, you gotta hold C while ya do it. Why couldn't it be something more common?

I think one basic important thing in any fighting game is being able to pick it up and play. And the special moves are ridiculous. (Angus from "Kasumi Ninja" shoots fireballs from under his kilt) Like what is this? He shoots fireballs out his dick? Or maybe it's a gaping flame vagina? Who the fuck knows; somebody was not right in the head. This game is fuckin' horrible!

But how do you wash down the bad taste of one shitty game? With another: Cybermorph. I already mentioned that this one looks worse than Star Fox, but, let's give it a chance.

Skylar: Good luck. (plane crashes into a wall) Where did you learn to fly?

What's with this green face? It's disturbing.

Skylar: Where did you learn to fly?

Stop talkin' to me.

Skylar: Where did you learn to fly?

Fuckin' freak.

Skylar: Where did you learn to fly?

Every single time you hit something it says that!

Skylar: Where did you learn to fly?

Knock it off! God, the mountains come outta nowhere. They just pop up giving you no time to react. And when ya die, it picks you up right where ya left off. Sometimes I complain about games making you start back at the beginning, but this one literally puts you right back where you are. Imagine if in Super Mario Bros. ya run into a Goomba and die. Okay, then what? Does it start ya right in front of the Goomba again? (No)

Skylar: Where did you learn to fly?

That voice just never stops.

Skylar: Where did you learn to fly?

Shut up!

Skylar: Where did you learn to fly? Where did you learn to fly? Where did you learn to fly?

Oh, COME ON!

(the Nerd gets up and turns off the Jaguar)

(sighs in relief) Oh, that's enough of that.

Skylar: Where did you learn to fly?

Oh, gotta get it outta my head. (Nerd drinks a bottle of Rolling Rock)

Skylar: Where did you learn to fly? Where did you learn to fly? Where did you learn to fly?

Oh, I gotta get it outta my head!

Skylar: Where did you learn to fly?

I gotta get it outta my head!

Skylar: Where did you learn to fly?

STOP!

(Skylar appears from behind the futon and the Nerd notices)

Skylar: Where did you learn to fly?

OH SHIT, OH SHIT!

(The Nerd gets up and runs to the computer desk and grabs his Super Scope)

Skylar: Where did you learn to fly? Where did you learn to fly? Where did you learn to fly? Where did--?

(The Nerd shoots Skylar and Skylar explodes)

WHERE'D YOU LEARN TO BE AN ASSHOLE?!

(the Nerd walks in front of his TV and starts talking to it)

JAGUAR, I'VE HAD ALL I CAN TAKE! YOU'RE THE MOST FUCKIN'--

(the Jaguar cube starts growling at the Nerd)

Did you just growl at me?

(the Jaguar cube comes out of the TV screen, growls again, and starts coming towards the Nerd)

OH GOD!

(The Nerd stands on top of his futon and starts shooting rapidly at the logo with the Super Scope, but to no avail)

(Super Scope runs out of ammo and the Nerd switches to another weapon: The Sega Menacer. He starts shooting rapidly at it, but fails too and it also runs out of ammo. Then the Nerd switches to an Atari 2600 Flight Commander gun that shoots like a machine gun. He shoots the Atari Jaguar logo and yet still fails)

Oh no, what do I do? (to his cat Boo) Hey, death kitty, sic 'em!

(Boo gets up and chases the Atari Jaguar logo around)

Yeah, that's the real jaguar!

(Boo meows and continues chasing the Atari Jaguar logo, while a Thrash Metal version of the Angry Video Game Nerd theme song plays, and it ends with both of them running up the stairs)

(exclaims) Well... okay, we played a few Jaguar games. We played a sports game, a side-scroller, a first-person shooter, a fighting game, a racing game, and a flying game. We played some good games. Some bad games. And overall, eh... it makes me wanna puke. Like a cat. (the Nerd pretends to puke like a cat coughing up a hairball, licks his hand, and wipes it in his hair)

And then what do they do? They make a CD add-on. Yeah. The fucking Jaguar CD. There's somethin' about this that perplexes me. You have a game console, that not many people owned, so you make an add-on that requires owning the game console. What were they THINKING?!

It should've just been its own individual game system. Besides, the fuckin' thing has its own AC adapter. So that's two. One for the Jaguar, and one for the Jaguar CD. And that's some cool-lookin' design. It looks just like a toilet. Yeah, it's a fucking toilet! What a perfect analogy.

I would review some games, but there's one problem: the fuckin' bastard doesn't work. Not even the cartridge slot, so I can't even play my regular Jaguar games while this thing's connected. I tried using different AC adapters, but nothing worked. It simply won't read the disc.

So I sent this broken piece of shit to my friend Richard to see if he could fix it. He invented the Nintoaster, a fully functional NES made out of a toaster. He also made the Super Genintari, which plays NES, SNES, Genesis, and Atari 2600 games. So game mechanisms are his specialty. If he can't fix it, then it's fucked. Here's his diagnosis.

Richard DaLuz: Ah, yes. The Atari Jaguar CD. What a steamin' pile of fuckin' shit that was. I wanna make sure there's nothing wrong with the console itself first, just to rule it out. So I plug in a game, push the power button, the Jaguar logo comes careening towards me in the foreground, and after a particularly hilarious fuckin' startup sequence, I'm playin' some Tempest 2000. WHOA! So now I know there's nothing wrong with the console itself.

Richard DaLuz: Time to move on to the CD unit. So I plug it in, hook up the additional 47 cables that came with it, push the power button, the logo comes careening towards me in the foreground, snarls, and... the Red Screen of Death, indicating a connection problem. So, the first thing I did was deep-clean every single contact point on both the console and the CD unit. I turned it on, Red Screen. Then I went back and made physical adjustments to every contact point in both the console and CD unit so it'd make a more solid connection. Turned it on, Red Screen. Finally, I just said "Fuck it!" and directly wired those two sons-of-bitches together, completely bypassing any and all cartridge ports and ruling out the remote chance of there ever being any kind of connection issue between the two systems. I turned it on and guess what? Red Screen!

Richard DaLuz: So at this point I pretty much just gave up and shipped everything back to him, along with a Pong machine, which pretty much just says, "I'm sorry man. This thing is just too shitty for me to work on." I think, between the flaming "Fuck you!" middle finger Red Screens and getting snarled at at the same time, this machine has become self-aware and does not wanna be repaired. That is my diagnosis. Richard out.

Well, thanks for tryin'. And thanks for the Pong console. Would you believe that a 30-year-old Pong console attached to a cell phone adapter would work, but a cutting-edge snarling Jaguar doesn't? There's somethin' wrong here. And ya know what? I blew 250 bucks ($250) on this thing. So, you know what I did? Bought another one. Yeah! And guess what? It doesn't work either! So, that's about $450 total I blew on two dead Jaguars. And these things are rare. So when the only two that I can manage to get my hands on just don't work, that leads me to believe that these things MOST DEFINITELY are self-aware! They don't wanna work! Ya can't make 'em! They just REFUSE to be reviewed! And I've never had that happen. So, the end. I gotta take a shit. (The Nerd takes out the Atari Jaguar with the Atari Jaguar CD attached to it, opens the Atari Jaguar CD, and literally takes a shit in it like a toilet, while the Thrash Metal version of the Angry Video Game Nerd theme song plays)